Hi and welcome back in this video we're going to be creating a small program to tell the user whether
they got it right or wrong depending on the number they type in.
And we're also going to allow the user to have multiple chances.
So not only one chance but maybe have three chances to get it right.
We're not going to do this in the interactive shell.
We're going to press command and to open a new file and we're going to do it in here.
So I'm just going to revise this.
Make sure you can see it.
And then there we go.
So now we don't have the time.
What we saw in the last few videos we're doing everything from scratch.
The Magic Numbers we need to define a list of magic numbers that are going to be what the user can get
from.
So magic underscore numbers and I'm going to say 3 and 9 again.
So if the user types in three or nine then we're going to tell them they got it right.
And if not we're going to tell them they got it wrong.
OK.
So then the user number is going to be for example 4.
And naturally we want to want to change this to an input so that the user can actually type something
in and we're going to do that just in a moment.
But it's better to first try and work the program out to see how it's going to work.
OK.
So the next thing to do would be to say if the number that they've typed in is Inside Magic Numbers
print and they've got it right.
So if you can do this bit you know how to check if something is in something and you know how to print
something out and you can do that both if they got it right.
And if they got it wrong so go ahead do that yourselves.
Try the two if statements and see if they work around that you can save the file and run it as well
.
OK.
So the first statement is in case they got it right.
So if user number in magic numbers then print you got the number right.
And then if you use a number not in magic and the school numbers and you didn't quite get it.
So in this case when we saved this file and run it we would expect to see that.
We didn't quite get it.
So let's save that and magic numbers and want to save it and then run it up.
And it does print out you didn't quite get it.
Naturally the user doesn't know what we're doing.
So this is not a very good program because the user isn't playing really it's just running a program
that always going to print out the same thing.
So let's change the user number for an input input into a number between 0 and 9.
OK.
So let's save this and run it and I'm going to type in three.
What do you think is going to happen when I type in the number three.
I have my user number.
Is it going to printout that I got the number right.
Or that I didn't quite get it.
Let's run it and find out.
I'm going to type in the number three and it says that I didn't quite get it.
So this has to do with numbers and strings once again and once I've sent that you immediately know what
the problem is the input method is getting the user input but it's getting it as a string.
And then it's saying if you use a number the string theory is in magic numbers which has the numbers
3 or 9 and that's saying that's not true because this is a string and these are a list of numbers.
So that's false.
Use a number not in magic numbers.
That's true.
The string theory is not in that list.
And then it says you didn't quite get it easy fix to verify that what I'm saying is true.
Put the string theory in there save it and run it again and then type in three again and now it says
that I got it because the string theory which is this one is inside that list.
However that is not a good solution.
Let's remove that and instead convert the usual input to an integer.
So you know how to do that.
You can use the same method that converts a string to an integer and do that.
To fix this program essentially.
So the way you would do that is you would put an end around here.
So there we go.
And here this is one way to fix it.
Another way would be to put in around these two here and that is also an acceptable solution.
So let's see if that press run again and now type in three.
And now it says that we got the number right which is what we would expect.
Something else I want to do is to give the user a few chances to get the number right.
So what I'm going to do is chances equal three I'm going to define that the user is going to have three
chances.
And now we are going to repeat this three times.
So I'm going to cut to that and put it at the top.
So now I'm going to repeat this code here three times.
And the way we're going to do that is using the for loop.
We don't know how to do this just yet.
So I'm not going to ask you to do it yourselves for I or it doesn't matter what you call it attempt
in an hour what goes in here is range chances.
And what this does is range creates a list so range chances.
It's essentially a list that goes from zero to two.
So I'm going to type a comment here and a range chances is 0 1 2.
So that is what that is what is going to happen and that's going to say attempt at first is going to
be 0 then it's going to be one that is going to be two.
So we realize that it's going to repeat it three times.
So I'm going to invent that.
And that is something very important in Python.
Make sure that your indentation is right.
So the idealy does it for you when you type an if statement.
The next line is slightly more indented.
But if we write something above another line that doesn't happen so make sure that your indentation
is always consistent.
So after the for loop indent for spaces after an if statement in InfoSpace is that always mean you have
to do after a colon.
So whenever you see a call on indent four spaces just type four spaces that's all you have to do.
So I'm going to delete that.
Just type in four spaces and that's that's everything.
So let's say that and press 5 to run it.
And now we can enter a number between 0 9 and type 4.
You said you didn't quite get 5 you don't quite get it and 3 and I got it.
So there's only three chances.
So our last challenge for you before the end of this video printout What attempt the user is in.
So I wanted to tell the user this is your first attempt.
This is your second attempt.
This is your third attempt.
You can simplify it and say This is attempt one or this attempt to zero.
This is attempt one that is attempt to try and do that and then we'll quickly do that here as well.
So the way to do that would be knowing that attempt is at least attempt at first it's going to be zero
that is going to be one that is going to be two.
So what we have to do is print.
This is a template and then format attempt to remember what this does is the format method replaces
the opening closing curly brace with the variable.
So in this case attempt which is 0 1 and 2.
Let's save that and run it.
And then he says this is a time to zero for this get him to 1 3.
He got it and 9 you got.
So this is attempt at 0 1 and 2.
OK.
So that's everything for this video.
We've looked at what a lot of things and we've made our first program essentially in here that allows
the user to decide to pick between numbers and we'll tell them whether the number is right or not.
So that's fantastic.
And in the next few videos we'll want to make sure that the magic numbers list is not pretty populated
so we're going to actually put numbers in the list via our program.
So we'll be doing that over the next couple of years.
So you there